Feature/update readme (#44)
bmw-tech/widget_driver: widget_driver/doc/widget_drivers.md

# WidgetDrivers

Let's take a deep dive into `WidgetDrivers` 🤿 😃

---

## Background

As mentioned in the [README](../), the `WidgetDriver` drives your widgets. Meaning that it provides all the dynamic data to the widget and tells it when to update.

Whenever you have a widget that has some data that changes, then you need some way to drive that logic.

Most Flutter apps probably use some common state management system like `Provider` or `BLoC`. And then in the build method of the widget they have some `BlocBuilder` or `context.watch<MyThing>()`

Or probably you even have multiple of these, so something like:

```dart
BlocBuilder<BlocA, BlocAState>(
    builder: (context, aState) {
        BlocBuilder<BlocB, BlocBState>(
            builder: (context, bState) {
                // Some widget code
            }
        )
    }
)
```

In this example these two blocs are driving the widget. If they emit new states then the widget updates. And then the widget combines these states somehow and draws the correct widget.

Now this might seem like a perfectly fine approach but it has one big issue. You are putting business logic in the widget.

> This breaks the separation of concern. The widget is a ui component. Its responsibility is to specify the UI. It should not make business decisions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This breaks the separation of concern. The widget is an UI component. Its responsibility is to specify the UI. It should not make business decisions.
```

> This breaks the separation of concern. The widget is a ui component. Its responsibility is to specify the UI. It should not specify UI and make business decisions.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This breaks the separation of concern. The widget is a ui component. Its responsibility is to specify the UI. It should not make business decisions.
```

Another issue with this approach is that it makes testing tougher. In your `widgetTests` you now need to test that the correct widgets are on the screen, and **also** that the two blocs behave correctly together.

And every time you test any widget which in some sub child contains these widgets, you will need to provide mock values for these specific blocs. (welcome to mocking hell 😬)

A better approach would be to have the widget only depend on one `thing`. And this `thing` only provides fixed data to the widget, meaning that the widget can just consume the data without adding more logic on top of it.  

And even better would be if this thing somehow would not need to be mocked by parent widgets when tested.

## `WidgetDriver` to the rescue 🚙

> By design, the `WidgetDriver` framework gives your widget a single `driver`. It does not give you two, and it does not give you an option to create a `driver` yourself. It just provides your widgets with a `driver` property. And as soon as the driver gets new data, your widget will update and grab the latest version of that data.

Reviewer 2: That last sentence "And as soon as the driver gets new data, your widget will update and grab the latest version of that data." is not true. When data on the driver changes that will not lead directly to an updated widget. The driver controls when data changes should also lead to a redraw of the widget.

Author: Yeah, that is true.. I oversimplified things here.. You need to also call the `notifyWidget()`.. Good input.. I will update this part and clarify it

Here is an example of a `Driver` which depends on some counter service and some localization object.

```dart
part 'counter_widget_driver.g.dart';

@Driver()
class CounterWidgetDriver extends WidgetDriver {
  final CounterService _counterService;
  final Localization _localization;
  StreamSubscription? _subscription;

  CounterWidgetDriver(
    BuildContext context, {
    CounterService? counterService,
  })  : _counterService = counterService ?? GetIt.I.get<CounterService>(),
        _localization = context.read<Localization>(),
        super(context) {

    _subscription = _counterService.valueStream.listen((_) {
      notifyWidget();
    });

  }

  @DriverProperty('The title of the counter')
  String get counterTitle => _localization.counterTitle;

  @DriverProperty(1)
  int get value => _counterService.value;

  @DriverAction()
  void increment() {
    _counterService.increment();
  }

  @DriverAction()
  void decrement() {
    _counterService.decrement();
  }

  @override
  void dispose() {
    _subscription?.cancel();
    super.dispose();
  }
}
```

There are three important concepts here.

> 1. The dependencies are loaded/crated/resolved in the constructor of the `driver`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. The dependencies are loaded/created/resolved in the constructor of the `driver`.
```

1. All the properties/methods which the driver wants to expose to the widgets needs to be annotated and given default values.

> 1. Whenever important data has changed in the `driver` you need to call `notifyWidget()`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Whenever important data has changed in the `driver` and you want the widget to update: call `notifyWidget()`
```

**Let's start talking about the dependencies.**  

> Any type of dependencies which your `driver` needs to be able to give your widget the correct data has to be loaded/crated/resolved in the constructor of the `driver`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Any type of dependencies which your `driver` needs to be able to give your widget the correct data has to be loaded/created/resolved in the constructor of the `driver`.
```

You get two option here for how to resolve these dependencies. Either you can grab them out of the `BuildContext` (for example if you are using the `Provider` package). Or you can use some DI package like `get_it` and then just grab the dependencies from the DI container.

**Now what about those annotations?**  
They are needed for the `testDrivers` to be generated correctly. So for all properties and methods which you expose to the widget, you will need to add these annotations.

For properties you add `@DriverProperty({default_value})`.  
The `default_value` should be the default value which you want to use when this widget is being created by other widgets under test.

For methods you add `@DriverAction()`.  
This is needed so that any potential parent widget when tested can call these methods without crashing.

After you are done creating your `driver` you need to run the generator so that the `testDrivers` gets created. Read more [here](code_generation.md) about running the generators.

**Updating the widget.**  
So now you have your dependencies and they have emitted some new state and you want to update your widget. But how?!

> Easy, you just call `notifyWidget()`. This will force your widget to call its `build` method again and update. Then it will just read the latest values from your `driver`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
That's easy: Just call `notifyWidget()`. This will force your widget to call its `build` method again and redraw using the latest values from your `driver`.
```

So for this to work, make sure that you first have all the correct data in place in your `driver` before calling `notifyWidget()`. Because as soon as you call `notifyWidget()` the widget will get updated.

### Life cycle

> Your `driver` lives together with the widgets which it drives. As soon as that widget gets put on screen, the `driver` gets created. If that widget gets remove from the screen then your `driver` gets disposed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Your `driver` lives together with the widget it drives. As soon as that widget gets put on screen, the `driver` gets created. If that widget gets remove from the screen then your `driver` gets disposed.
```
In theory a driver could be used for multiple widget instances, right? But anyhow I'd stay singular (widget) here.

Author: Well not really. Each DrivableWidget gets its own instance of the driver... So all DrivableWidgets of the same type will share drivers of the same type.. But they all have their own instance of that driver..

So each widget has its own instance of the driver..

You should not/cannot share the same driver instance between multiple widgets.. Since the framework creates the instance for you.. So it is not really up to you..

But what you could do in theory is to share the same driver type between different drivableWidget type.. So you could have 
```
class MyFirstDrivableWidget extends DrivableWidget<MyDriver> {}

class MySecondDrivableWidget extends DrivableWidget<MyDriver> {}
```

In this case, both these widgets would have drivers of the same type..
But I would not recommend this.. Since the drivers are view models, they should be tailored for a unique view.. If you start sharing drivers, then you start putting shared business logic in them and in the end you end up with DigitalKeyBloc or VehiclesBloc..
